Update the ORA notebook to use murine leukemia data (#412)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: pathway-analysis/01-overrepresentation_analysis.Rmd

```{r mm_kegg_columns}
colnames(mm_kegg_df)
```

The `clusterProfiler` function we will use requires a data frame with two columns, where one column contains the term identifier or name and one column contains gene identifiers that match our gene lists we want to check for enrichment.
Our data frame with KEGG terms contains Entrez IDs and gene symbols.

## Read in DGE results and prep

```{r read_in_dge_results, live = TRUE}
vs_low_df <- readr::read_tsv(vs_low_file)
vs_unsorted_df <- readr::read_tsv(vs_unsorted_file)
```

Let's take a peek at the top of one of the results data frames.

```{r peek_at_dge_results, live = TRUE}
head(vs_low_df)
```

Some of these rows have `NA` values in `padj`, which [can happen for a number of reasons](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/vignettes/DESeq2/inst/doc/DESeq2.html#pvaluesNA) including when all samples have zero counts.

Let's filter to rows that _do not have any `NA`_ using a function called `complete.cases()`.

```{r complete_cases}
# Remove rows that are not complete (e.g., contain NAs) by filtering to only 
# complete rows
vs_low_df <- vs_low_df %>%
  # The dot here means "all"

>   dplyr::filter(complete.cases(.))

Reviewer: We could switch here to `tidyr::drop_na()`, which avoids some confusion around dots.

# Repeat the process for the other DGE results data frame
vs_unsorted_df <- vs_unsorted_df %>%
  dplyr::filter(complete.cases(.))
```

In both tables of DGE results, we use Ensembl gene identifiers. 
So we will need to convert from these identifiers into either gene symbols or Entrez IDs.

> ### Gene identifier conversion

Reviewer: If we move this before the filtering, we can save some steps (identical gene lists) , and also perhaps make the logic a bit more clear about why we need to do the conversion... no steps between getting the database info and making the identifiers match.

Also, you might move the above paragraphs justifying the conversion under this header?

We'll start with the high stem cell capacity vs. low stem cell capacity population comparison.
Genes with positive log2 fold-changes (LFC) will be more highly expressed in the high stem cell capacity cells based on how we set up the analysis.

```{r high_capacity_genes}
vs_low_genes <- vs_low_df %>%
  # Filter to the positive LFC and filter based on significance too (padj)
  dplyr::filter(log2FoldChange > 0,
                padj < 0.05) %>%
  # Return a vector of gene symbols
  dplyr::pull(gene_symbol)
```

Although we're picking a _commonly used_ cutoff (FDR < 0.05), it's still arbitrary and we could just as easily pick a different threshold for our LFC values.
When we generate lists of genes of interest for ORA, we typically pick an arbitrary cutoff.
This is one of the approach's weaknesses -- we've removed all other context.

Now, we'll take the same steps for our other results. 

```{r unsorted_genes_to_remove, live = TRUE}
vs_unsorted_genes <- vs_unsorted_df %>%
  dplyr::filter(log2FoldChange > 0,
                padj < 0.05) %>%
  dplyr::pull(gene_symbol)
```

We want genes that are in the first comparison but not in the second!

> We can use `setdiff()`, a base R function for set operations, to get the list that we want.

Reviewer: Probably not something people will think much about, but I just had to look to satisfy myself that order mattered for `setdiff()`

Author: The comment in the code block itself is a reminder for me to say that during training. Observation: I believe you are of the opinion that people are more likely to read the text outside the comments than the comments themslves and I have the opposite opinion. My opinion is founded pretty much entirely in my own behavior/tendencies.

> 17,980 genes detected in a Microarray study 

Where the key phrase is **genes detected**. 

> If we are unable to include a gene because, for example, it had low mean expression in our experiment and therefore was filtered out in our `tidyr::drop_na()` step, we shouldn't include in our background set.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we were unable to include a gene in one of our differential expression comparisons because, for example, it had low mean expression in our experiment and therefore was filtered out in our `tidyr::drop_na()` step, we shouldn't include in our background set.  
```

> We can use another function for set operations, `intersect()`, to get our background set.

Reviewer: I thought this could be a bit more explicit about what `intersect` is doing. It is in the comment, but do people read those?
```suggestion
We can use another function for set operations, `intersect()`, to get our background set of genes that were included in both comparisons.
```

> 17,980 genes detected in a Microarray study 

Where the key phrase is **genes detected**. 

> If we are unable to include a gene because, for example, it had low mean expression in our experiment and therefore was filtered out in our `complete.cases()` step, we shouldn't include in our background set.  

Reviewer: Two comments: One is just a note that if you take my `tidyr::drop_na()` suggestion, this will need to change. The other is that you don't explicitly say (I don't think) that low mean expression is going to be filtered during that step... you do mention zero expression, which is not quite the same.
